---
layout: page
title: "POST TITLE"
date: 2020-10-13 22:30:00 -0700
categories: CATEGORY-1 CATEGORY-2
---
In London at the start of the year, perhaps there was more advertising than there usually is in my life, because I found its presence disgusting and upsetting. Could I not use public transport without having my mind intruded upon continually by trite performative questions?

Sometimes I fantasize about a future where stealing someone's attention to suggest for the fourteenth time that they watch your awful-looking play is rightly looked upon as akin to picking their pocket.

Stepping back, advertising is widely found to be a distasteful activity. But I think it is helpful to distinguish the different unpleasant flavors potentially involved (and often not involved—there is good advertising):
1. **Mind manipulation** Advertising is famous for uncooperatively manipulating people's beliefs and values in whatever way makes them more likely to pay money somehow. For instance, deceptively encouraging the belief that everyone uses a certain product, or fostering unwanted wants.
2. **Zero-sumness** To the extent advertising is aimed at raising the name recognition and thus market share of one product over its similar rivals, it is zero or negative sum: burning effort on both sides and the attention of the customer for no overall value.
3. **Theft of a precious thing** Attention is arguably one of the best things you have, and its protection arguably worthy of great effort. In cases where it is vulnerable—for instance because you are outside and so do not personally control everything you might look at or hear-advertising is the shameless snatching of it. This might be naively done, in the same way that a person may naively steal silverware, assuming that it is theirs to take because nothing is stopping them.
4. **Cultural poison** Culture and the common consciousness are a dance of the multitude of voices and experiences in society. In the name of advertising, huge amounts of effort and money flow into amplifying fake voices, designed to warp perceptions for exploitation. Advertising becomes a large portion of the voices people hear. It draws them into its thin world. In this way, it goes beyond manipulating the mind of those who listen to it, and through those minds sully the whole shared world, even for those who don't listen. Advertising shifts your conception of what you can do, and what other people are doing, and what you should pay attention to. It presents role models, designed entirely for someone else's profit. It saturates popular culture with any inanity that might sell something.
5. **Market failure**: We should be able to coordinate to avoid it, but do not. e.g. the best message for me to see, if I have to see a message, when sitting on a train, is probably something fairly different. It is probably worth me paying a small amount of money to each person who would advertise at me to just see a blank wall instead, but it is hard for them to collect that money.

What would especially ethical advertising look like? I decide that I want to be advertised to now, and go to my preferred advertising venue. I see a series of messages about things that it is actively helpful for me to know-for instance, newly available things to buy or do, ways of using products I have, interesting things taking place that I might want to be a part of. I can downvote ads if I don't like the picture of the world that they are feeding into my brain, or the apparent cooperativeness of their message. I leave advertising time feeling inspired and happy.
