---
layout: post
title: "Wordtune review"
date: 2021-01-26 01:30:00 -0700
tags: AI review software service
comments: true
image:
summary:
---
Wow, Facebook is advertising [an AI-driven writing tool](https://www.wordtune.com/) to me. I think this is the first time I've seen a mainstream potentially useful product coming from all of this. Let's see how it does. I've started by writing this paragraph quickly myself, and then I will rewrite it using Wordtune, to demonstrate its features. Then I may rewrite it further using its premium features or my more honed writing, all going well.

Wow, Facebook is showing me a machine-learning based writing platform. I believe that this is the first mainstream application of all this. See how it goes. I wrote this paragraph on my own quickly, and then rewrote it using Wordtune to demonstrate its features. Then I may rewrite it using its premium features or using my more refined writing skills, if all goes well.
 - Wordtune

I am intrigued by Facebook's advertisement with regards to an artificial intelligence (AI) writing tool. I'm not aware of any mainstream application arising from these efforts.Let us see how it goes. I created this paragraph quickly myself, and now I'm going to rewrite it using Wordtune to demonstrate all it has to offer. Afterwards, I will be able to incorporate premium features in it or craft it into a more refined style, all going well.
- formal Wordtune

Wow, Facebook is advertising a writing tool which uses artificial intelligence (AI) that I did not know existed. This is something of a landmark event; I've not yet seen a mainstream useful product coming out of anything like this. I'm looking forward to seeing how it goes. I've begun by writing this paragraph myself but I will then rewrite it with the aid of Wordtune to illustrate its various features. Then I may rewrite it further using its premium features or my more honed writing, all going well.
- longer Wordtune

Wow, Facebook's touting a writing tool powered by artificial intelligence. This is the first time I've seen a mainstream use coming from all this. Let's see what it does. I wrote it quickly, and I'm gonna rewrite it with Wordtune, just so I can show you how it works. After that I'll maybe rewrite it more using its premium features or my own better skills.
- casual Wordtune

Wow, Facebook offers me an AI-driven writing tool. This is the first mainstream product I've seen from all of this. Let's see. I first wrote the paragraph, and then I rewrote it with Wordtune, so you can see its features. Then I will retake it using its premium features or my better writing, all going well.
- shorter Wordtune

Facebook just surprised me with an ad for an AI writing tool. Could it be the first useful mainstream product to come from all this?  Let's take it for a ride. I wrote this paragraph fast, then asked Wordtune to rewrite it, to show you its moves. I might repeat the demonstration with its other style options, or mine, fate willing.
- me spending more time

A Facebook ad for AI-improved writing! GPT-3-like tools enter the mainstream. Let's try it. I jot five lines, apply Wordtune, and watch. Next I might compare paid features or my own skills.
- me shorter

Facebook takes a break in its endless stream of extremely comfortable-looking bra suggestions and creepy-but-welcome commercials for things I mentioned in conversation or thought of in a dream once or something, to offer me artificial intelligence to automate half my writing process. Wait, what? Is it the future at last? Shit! I like that half of my writing process. Well, let's see it. I'll write a shitty paragraph, and then see what this 'Wordtune' can do with it. Then maybe I'll see what I can do with it, to compare (and see if it's all over for my joyous thesaurus expeditions).
- me, humorous conversational
