---
layout: post
title: "Russian River: diary of a 2022 retreat"
date: 2021-01-29 10:30:00 -0700
tags: worldlypositions travel retreat mundane
comments: true
image:
summary:
---

*A self-indulgent account of my current retreat, in case you want to know what it's like being a different person to you, and so that I remember what it was like to be current-me better in the future.*

I'm on an end-of-year retreat, my fifth in a row. It feels wrong to write for outside eyes here&mdash;a crack in the pretensexxx that these cozy rooms and the rain outside are the world, and observers and obligations exist only on some irrelevant other plane, for these three days. But this year it's mostly a writing retreat, so I shall suck it up.

Another reason to suck it up is that this is a somewhat spiritual retreat, and even small doses of spirituality awake in me an urge to become scrupulous and neurotic. As soon as the meditation starts, I get twitchy. My thoughts become encumbered by an encompassing sense that I should be moving and thinking in certain ways, not quite known, not what would come naturally. And 'rules' like 'no writing public things about this' suggest themselves a lot. 

And descents into such neurosis should not be borne! (Usually, if one has the energy to not bear them, if one is me.) Let them settle in and they will grow. xxx[true?]

I also doubt these neuroses help in any way: I don't know what spirituality is, but my guess is that its better parts are better reached through being embodied and free and happy and accepting and perceptive, not through intellectual rule-following, pious pedantry, tight-jaws, judgmentalness, and proliferating constraints. That said, I don't seem to be the only one who gets pulled toward the latter in the vicinity of religion.

Traditionally, end of year retreat involves:
1. meditation
2. vaguely thematically retreaty things&mdash;like if you didn't know what retreating was for, but wanted to cargo cult it: candles, listening to Christian monks opine on life, getting up early, abjuring habitual addictions, eating lentil slurries.
3. spirituality (you know, the atheistic kind.. no I don't know either, but here we are)
4. reflecting on the year
5. attempted self improvement, roughly CFAR style
6. attempts at 'living in reality' and 'being a baller', which in my internal ontology are the same, and substantially overlapping with 'spirituality': try to perceive the world as it is, and feel it, and come to terms with it, and don't be tied up in knots trying to act in it; be able to wield yourself well...

An issue with all this, is that I can't presently remember why some of it seemed good, and I'm not really in the mood, given that. I have definitely been excited about something in the vicinity of meditation and spirituality before. But sitting down to meditate right now, I want it to be over. So I could just not do it, but if I skip it all, perhaps I won't ever remember again what was good about it. And from inside when it seemed good, I think it maybe seemed so good that everything without it seemed like error.

So I'm compromising by making this a writing retreat, but with an eye to all the rest (e.g. maybe I will blog about what I think is up with spirituality, or how to live in reality and be a baller), and with mornings before I start writing dedicated to more retreatish rituals. 

I'm hoping that that such morning things get me into a better headspace for writing, but today I'd say it didn't work. Or perhaps the absence of my usual unwholesome anxiety reduction techniques is just a stronger pressure away from being in a good headspace. In the last hour I've been so dazed I can hardly think at times, which is probably because I took xanax, which was to hold off a combination of anxiety and probably-stress-induced-migraine. Usually I might now obsessively look at Manifold Markets or play a gripping phone game, which would spark my mind into coherence. But instead I am stuck in this vague purgatory. I took a second dose of adderall, so we'll see. 

If things go well at some point though, I'm hoping that if I write a blog post about it, anything important I learn will actually be available to me in the future, in spite of the spottiness of my memory on such topics.

Today I remembered that pacing around is pretty good. I think I learn this every time I have a retreat, and often in between, and mostly fail to propagate it into my normal life, except when I'm really anxious and it comes naturally. Today I paced back and forth in the hallway listening to Sam Harris explain why he thinks the 'meaning of life' isn't a good question. I'm generally sympathetic to it being a bad question, but I tend to think that if someone sees merit in something, and someone else doesn't, the former person is probably right in some important way. Like, if people keep wondering about the meaning of life, there's something that's grabbing them. And it's going to be more enlightening to figure out what it is or why they hunger for it than to explan why it doesn't make sense on your model. (Or maybe it's just that I personally have mostly loudly explained my own disinterest too much historically, and other people should heed different advice.)

I also finished reading Ben Kuhn's ['Staring into the abyss as a core life skill'](https://www.benkuhn.net/abyss/), and thought about which important questions in life I might particularly hate to think about. I didn't actually think about them much, I just wrote them down. I figure noticing them at all probably goes a long way, and it seems best not to be disincentivised from coming up with such things by immediately being forced to suffer them.

I spent more than twelve hours on blogging, staying up late because I was into it (and maybe a bit because I needed to urgently un-publish a bunch of drafts that Substack randomly posted in the process of importing Worldly Positions)xxx. Incidentally, this is more than I often work in a week.

***

The next day,
- generally a bit dizzy, a bit constrained in my mind like i can't stand back and see everything at once metaphorically or remember what I'm missing
- It's bad somehow that the lights in my room can't be brighter. Like, sometimes I just want a bright light in my face, for sanity. In general, I'm getting the impression that I usually do things to modulate what my mind is like, and they are substantially off-limits now due to being addictive internet things or broadly unwholesome. Or else perhaps some of them being off-limits disorients me in my usually sub-conscious dance of being mentally alright, and so I don't know what to do, even though there are still things I could do, and I end up mentally less alright. But I often end up mentally less alright anyway, so maybe this is just more of the usual. It's cope-with-able, but I do hunger for some vision of mental clarity and poise that I (falsely?) imagine comes from just really being able to look at whatever one wants on the internet at any moment. 
- My companion is feeling sick, so we are worried about covid, so I have retreated to my room. My feelings aren't so worried though. And I opened the window for ventilation, which means there is a lot of 'redwoods in rain' vibe coming in, which is pretty good. I packed a fuckton of supplements one should maybe take if one has covidxxx and a mask one might think is overkill for a two person retreat in the forest, so am terrifically prepared. I doled out some supplements for myself and gave the rest to my companion, and wear my mask in common areas, and feel like I'm doing okay. It might be tricky to get paxlovid if need be, but we'll figure it out. Much of our communication about this has happened via little hand-written notes, because it is a silent retreat. We relented and talked a bit, mostly in whispers, and I resisted the temptation to say anything unnecessary about the miracle of how I was actually reading his recent blog post.

For today's reading/listening time, I'm reading this blog post. At some point, a kind of feeling came over me, which was familiar, but I wasn't sure I'd named before. Like a rising pitch of mental tightness and hardness. The warmth draining out. The OCD knob suddenly turned up. The end of easy reading time. I guess perhaps it's the feeling I sometimes get at the end of the day if I worked hard and took adderall. (I've never been sure if the adderall directly causes it, or if it causes the working hard, which causes the mental state.) It's as if while my head was down working, something was gathering out of view, and when I see it, it has grown too big to be xxx settled down to rest again. A tangible problem with it is that I get twitchy&mdash;kind of like a person with Tourette's or a stammer, at worst it can become hard to move or speak for all the OCD-required flinches that present themselves. Why do I do them? I don't really know. It feels like it will be terrible if I don't. Why do you flinch when a ball comes toward your face, if you know it's held back by a string? It doesn't feel like I will be physically hurt though, it feels like my soul will be broken into by terrible impure forces, my self disintegrated, the future sickening and incoherent. I'm not sure how well this behavior can be described by rational agency in the face of such irrational intuitions, versus being barely-amenable-to-willpower and just justified after the fact. But perhaps I'm just trying to let myself off the hook. I have let the OCD tormentors have my soul before, and at least one time it was instant recovery, and lasted for a time. But it creeps back, and at any given moment confronting it all right then seems likely to be a whole ordeal, so I conveniently justify putting it off, againd and again for years. But actually until writing this paragraph I hadn't thought so much about it explicitly in a while. I usually just do the things unconsciously and feel encumbered. Probably I should do something about it.

At any rate, right now the OCD knob is only turned up a little. But reading went from a delicious smorgasbord of thoughts to repeatedly running my eyes over black and white words, effortfully wresting meaning from them.

Something about this particular reading experience reminds me of doing projects&mdash;there is often energy at the start, and then it runs out and every motion becomes strenuous. But an important part I realize now is that the energy is coming from the whole thing fitting in my mind well: like, there is an era of coherence, where some thought-object builds up in my mind, and every corner of it is seen, and it can be deftly manipulated. But then if that episode ends&mdash;because I have to sleep, or my attention is grabbed elsewhere, or it's just too big, or I become twitchy&mdash;then I can't easily pick the thing up again, and squish it back into my mind. I don't know if this account is entirely right, but I think there's something right about it.

I may have departed substantially from the retreat aesthetic. Now I'm eating ferrero rochers for lunch in my bed at 4pm while I vaguely look at my computer screen. My computer screen is less satisfying than usual, so hopefully that counts for something.

Late night reflection thought: blogging and being present and/or meditatey are pretty different, and I like them both. Is there a way to combine them?

*** 

Day 3

I don't know if I'm going to get much of the spirituality thing this time around. Perhaps the best I've got of it is reading snippets of my past writing that gesture at bits of it.

An interesting thing though is that I'm actively excited to blog for at least twelve hours a day. I'm not going to tell you how much more that is than my usual number of work hours, in case that legally requires someone to fire me or something, which I doubt would be for the greater good, though it may come as a personal relief. I will reveal that it's probably at least a hundred times longer than I am actively excited to do my work on average. (You may here say, 'but it's so important to be actively excited about your work! You should do something you are excited about', but this is tricky, because people also say they really like the 2016 survey I did with other people, and that was such a miserable slog I intended to never do it again, even though my other work is also often ill-suited to my proclivities. I bet it would be better if I was actively excited, all things equal. But stuff I extra hate doing just doesn't go quite as badly as would be selfishly convenient.) Anyway, if I just blogged instead of doing work, and a small fraction of my blogging happened to be about AI risk, it seems like I might come out ahead.

My companion is evidently at least a bit sick, and in our experience, repeated negative cue tests aren't that strong a sign of non-covid, so we remain isolated (not a huge cost on a silent and solitudinous retreat). I remain in my room in particular, which is accumulating bar-wrappers and empty fererro rocher shells and dried out coffee mugs. I like it though. I feel a bit sick too, but have hypochondria--self-diagnosed on the internet, what a relief to have an explanation for so many symptoms!--so it's probably that. Also eating zinc lozenges always makes me feel like I'm sick. (Big Zinc, is that you trying to get your claws into my wallet?)xxx

I'm drinking Kin Euphorics non-alcoholic booze ('High Rhode'), which claimed it would make me feel good, and actually did this time it seems (!?) but sadly also says it should only be had four times per day in spite of being tiny. I wish drugs were better--it seems very physically feasible for me to feel not only good but incredible, yet I have never found a solid pharmaceutical route even to 'consistently fine' that doesn't involve substantial downsides or uncertainties or conversations with my worried friends about Jordan Peterson's life choices leading him to an induced coma in Russia or something. My guess is that basic painkillers actually do well, but it's always hard for me to say how well, and I lack much intuitive sense that they do anything. Music and computer games have both been better at tangibly excising suffering without obvious downsides. Which seems strange——I might have thought it would be easier to directly modify a brain chemically, than to do it by manipulating a guitar in the right way near its sensory organs. Cynical materialist sensibilities may also struggle with claims that what one needs in times of distress is some nice opera over benzos, but seriously. But also, why do the drugs have bad side-effects and the physical activities don't? I guess there is the kind of downside that if you play Tetris for too long, everything seems like it is falling blocks. Or concerns like, "you'll feel good now, but next week you'll be comparing drum kit prices, and before you know it you'll be habitually retweeting Taylor Swift". I recently bought a violin on a whim, so we might be seeing the blowback. (If I consume Pachebel's Canon in D on live violin in the privacy of my own room, then nobody need observe the revelry.)

Things that might help with some kind of spirituality, imo:
- "and I want live in every word, to the extent that it's absurd"
- enjoy whatever happens as a rich place to practice experiencing what it is like to be you; be curious what it is like actually; be disinterested in deciding whether it is acceptable
- Despair, cry, listen to "Free" by Florence and the Machine in your office, have some kind of exalting xxxcatharsis, dance around with your arms flung wide, singing, "there is nothing else that I know how to do, but to open up my arms and give it all to you" 
- (have zero regard for whether this is corny)


Toward the end I thought things seemed different and maybe my attempts here were totally missing the point, so that's promising


