---
layout: post
title: "Retreating from 2022"
date: 2021-01-29 10:30:00 -0700
tags: CATEGORY-1 CATEGORY-2
comments: true
image:
summary:
---

*A self-indulgent account of my current retreat, in case you want to know what it's like being a different person to you, and so that I remember this better in future.*

I'm on an end-of-year retreat, my fifth in a row. It feels wrong to write for outside eyes here&mdash;a crack in the pretensexxx that these cozy rooms and the rain outside are the world, and observers and obligations exist only on some irrelevant other plane, for these three days. But this year it's mostly a writing retreat, so I shall suck it up.

Another reason to suck it up is that this is a somewhat spiritual retreat, and even small doses of spirituality awake in me a compelling urge to become scrupulous and neurotic. As soon as the meditation starts, I get twitchy. My thoughts get encumbered by an encompassing sense that I should be moving and thinking in certain ways, not quite known, but not what would be natural. And 'rules' like 'no writing public things about this' suggest themselves a lot. 

And descents into neurosis such as these should not be borne! (In general, if one has the energy to not bear them, if one is me.) Let them in and they will settle in and grow. 

I also doubt these neuroses help in the moment: I don't really know what spirituality is, but my guess is that its better parts are better reached through being embodied and free and happy and accepting and perceptive, not through intellectual rule following, pious pedantry, tight-jawed seriousness, judgmentalness, and constraints on thought. That said, I don't seem to be the only one who gets pulled toward the latter in the vicinity of religion.

Traditionally, end of year retreat involves:
1. meditation
2. vaguely thematically retreaty things&mdash;like if you didn't know what retreating was for, but wanted to cargo cult it: candles, listening to Christian monks opine on things, getting up early, abjuring habitual addictions, eating lentils.
3. spirituality (you know, the atheistic kind.. no I don't know either, but I observe that here we are)
4. reflecting on the year
5. attempted self improvement, roughly CFAR style
6. attempts at 'living in reality' and 'being a baller', which in my internal ontology are the same, and substantially overlapping with 'spirituality': try to perceive the world as it is, and come to terms with it, and don't be tied up in knots trying to act in it; be able to wield yourself well

An issue with all this, is that I can't presently remember why some of it seemed good, and I'm not really in the mood, given that. I have definitely been excited about something in the vicinity of meditation and spirituality before. But sitting down to meditate right now, I want it to be over. So I could just not do it, but if I skip it all, perhaps I won't ever remember again what was good about it. And from inside when it seemed good, I think it maybe seemed so good that everything without it seemed like error.

I'm compromising by making this a writing retreat, but with an eye to all the rest (e.g. maybe I will blog about what I think is up with spirituality, or how to live in reality and be a baller), and with mornings before I start writing dedicated to more retreatish rituals. 

I'm hoping that that such morning things get me into a better headspace for writing, but today I'd say it didn't work. Or perhaps the absence of my usual unwholesome anxiety reduction techniques is just a stronger pressure away from being in a good headspace. In the last hour I've been so dazed I can hardly think at times, which is probably because I took xanax, which was to hold off a combination of anxiety and probably-stress-induced-migraine. Usually I might now obsessively look at Manifold Markets or play a gripping phone game, which would spark my mind into coherence. But instead I am stuck in this vague purgatory. I took a second dose of adderall, so we'll see. 

If things go well at some point though, I'm hoping that if I write a blog post about it, anything important I learn will actually be available to me in the future, in spite of the spottiness of my memory on such topics.

Today I remembered that pacing around is pretty good. I think I learn this every time I have a retreat, and mostly fail to propagate it into my normal life, except when I'm really anxious and it comes naturally. Today I paced back and forth in the hallway listening to Sam Harris explain why he thinks the 'meaning of life' isn't a good question. I'm generally sympathetic to it not being, but I tend to think that if someone sees merit in something, and someone else doesn't, the former person is probably right in some important way. Like, if people keep wondering about the meaning of life, there's something that's grabbing them. And it's going to be more enlightening to figure out what it is or why they hunger for it than to explan why it doesn't make sense on your model. (Or maybe I have just mostly done the latter historically, but other people should heed the opposite advice.)

I also finished reading Ben Kuhn's ['Staring into the abyss as a core life skill'](https://www.benkuhn.net/abyss/), and thought about which important questions in life I might particularly hate to think about. I didn't actually think about them much, I just wrote them down. I figure noticing them at all probably goes a long way, and it seems best not to be disincentivised from coming up with such things by immediately being forced to suffer them.







