---
layout: post
title: "POST TITLE"
date: 2021-01-xx 10:30:00 -0700
tags: CATEGORY-1 CATEGORY-2
comments: true
image:
summary:
---
What is it like to be high?

Like drunk, but number, but like meta-numb where you don't get the I'm-numb! message coming back from the place, you just don't get a message. True numbness doesn't feel numb.

Less like words are meaningful?

How do I tell what is highness, and what is the normal having of a mind?

I am slow, but not in a slow way. I am paused while my brain runs around looking for something.

My chest feels funny, so that's good, because I wanted to be anxious, and now I am. I could probably use this for having panic attacks to cope with all the time. There is a clearer sense of things being okay. There is an alarm!!-lostness-elsewhere of 'where was I? Am I lost? Something bad is happening', and then that's back into the anxiety again. It feels like this isn't the proper situation for overcoming my anxiety, because my mind is a mess, and the overcoming my anxiety plans involve my mind being a dancing-with-the-spirit fortress of implacable seeing. This makes me realize that that is not how the plan is meant to go. Maybe my mind ends up like that, but the plan is much easier. I just have to be anxious and do nothing, which are two of the easiest things in the world, so putting them together is actually a task


everything abstract is eventually not abstract, (and every ship will come in)
maybe it isn't right to do SIA as we do with bayesina ignorance

maybe you can make any drug, by taking a placebo, and knowingly saying it is for that. Like if I was just like 'peppermint tea is my mindful drug' and it was at least a little bit evocative, so that you could get into it, maybe it would work? I think it would. Churches and rituals work.

It's wild that minds work. And I'm inclined to treat that as some kind of abstract thing, that you think about sometimes, like 'there are infinitely mnay primes'. (each thing i thought of to go here, i was like 'oh wow i guess that is also not like i am saying it is, but also concrete'.) But everything is ultimately concrete like a cucumber in your hand is concrete. But maybe the cucumber isn't as concrete as you think. But like being familiar and lazy with a thing is, rather than unfamiliar and lazy. Like the kitchen tap, not like the list of arguments about consciousness.

everything is concrete

a notable thing about this is that i keep being sort of coldly aware of what I am urged to do, or what situation I am in, before I do anything. Then often I don't do the thing. e.g. I considered saying at least two dumb things that would make the conversation worse, then coldly and without fanfare, did not.

if you play open guitar strings, they sound like different vowels. Is it true, or made up?

what if I wrote a blog post about what it is like to be anxious? I think that would motivate me to be anxious, while I was writing it.

what about a story/situation where there is great inequality, but the weak can launch infectious diseases that they can sell the cure or treatment for, or to be employed in giving it. They are obsolete, but if they can create a problem that the rich will pay to solve, and they can solve (e.g. because they have inside info as the creator)
